

Qi2013 - IL-6 and IFN crosstalk model

This model [[BIOMD0000000544]](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels-
main/BIOMD0000000544) describes the crosstalk between IFN-gamma and IL-6
induced signalling; it aims to outline mechanisms and factors that may control
the interaction between both signalling pathways, discussing a role of
heterodimer formation in signalling dysfunction.  
  
To account for the possibility of different IFNR and gp130 binding sites for
STAT1 and STAT3, model 1 [[BIOMD0000000543]](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels-
main/BIOMD0000000543) assumes that there is no competition between STAT1 and
STAT3 for the receptor complexes (includes two extra reactions).  
The reverse of this is true in model 2
[[BIOMD0000000544]](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels-main/BIOMD0000000544) where
it generally is assumed that there is competition between STAT1 and STAT3 for
the receptor complexes.  

This model is described in the article:

[Elucidating the crosstalk mechanism between IFN-gamma and IL-6 via
mathematical modelling.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/23384097)

Qi YF, Huang YX, Wang HY, Zhang Y, Bao YL, Sun LG, Wu Y, Yu CL, Song ZB, Zheng
LH, Sun Y, Wang GN, Li YX.

BMC Bioinformatics 2013; 14: 41

Abstract:

BACKGROUND: Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) are
multifunctional cytokines that regulate immune responses, cell proliferation,
and tumour development and progression, which frequently have functionally
opposing roles. The cellular responses to both cytokines are activated via the
Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT)
pathway. During the past 10 years, the crosstalk mechanism between the IFN-
gamma and IL-6 pathways has been studied widely and several biological
hypotheses have been proposed, but the kinetics and detailed crosstalk
mechanism remain unclear. RESULTS: Using established mathematical models and
new experimental observations of the crosstalk between the IFN-gamma and IL-6
pathways, we constructed a new crosstalk model that considers three possible
crosstalk levels: (1) the competition between STAT1 and STAT3 for common
receptor docking sites; (2) the mutual negative regulation between SOCS1 and
SOCS3; and (3) the negative regulatory effects of the formation of STAT1/3
heterodimers. A number of simulations were tested to explore the consequences
of cross-regulation between the two pathways. The simulation results agreed
well with the experimental data, thereby demonstrating the effectiveness and
correctness of the model. CONCLUSION: In this study, we developed a crosstalk
model of the IFN-gamma and IL-6 pathways to theoretically investigate their
cross-regulation mechanism. The simulation experiments showed the importance
of the three crosstalk levels between the two pathways. In particular, the
unbalanced competition between STAT1 and STAT3 for IFNR and gp130 led to
preferential activation of IFN-gamma and IL-6, while at the same time the
formation of STAT1/3 heterodimers enhanced preferential signal transduction by
sequestering a fraction of the activated STATs. The model provided a good
explanation of the experimental observations and provided insights that may
inform further research to facilitate a better understanding of the cross-
regulation mechanism between the two pathways.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000544](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000544).

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024).

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

